DOC 4059 (#71)
couchbaselabs/docs-couchbase-lite: modules/ROOT/pages/swift.adoc

include::{snippet}[tag=logging,indent=0]
----

=== Logging

Couchbase Lite 2.5 adds a new logging API that unifies the logging behavior across all platforms, making logs easier to both retrieve and decode during development and in production.

There are three different logging features:

Console based logging::
Enabled by default.
Console based logging is often used to facilitate troubleshooting during development.
File based and custom logging are disabled by default and can be enabled and configured on the "Database" object.
+
File based logging::
File based logging is supported in two formats:

> * a plaintext mode

Reviewer: List this after binary mode since thats default

Author: https://github.com/couchbase/docs-couchbase-lite/commit/aea18dc924223dd975e2b91ea7b422ad3388f328

* a binary format mode which is much more efficient in terms of storage and performance.
It is the default configuration for file based logging.
+
It is recommended that you use binary log format.
However, in order to view the binary encoded log files, you will need a decoder.

> To decode the binary logs, there is a binary log decoder called the *cbl-log* which is a tool downloadable from https://www.couchbase.com/downloads[here].

Reviewer: You should point this to the docs page which provides the install instructions for cb-log tool . We don't want to take users out of documentation site and no reason for users to have to search through downloads page to just get the link to documentation site.  As FYI - the downloads page  simply has link to the documentation site - nothing more

Author: https://github.com/couchbase/docs-couchbase-lite/commit/1d30b75458ce604f89054265cb07083c70c2ab3a - FYI the cbl-log section is empty atm (will add content as part of another ticket)

+
Custom logging::

> Provides apps the ability to use other logging frameworks to handle Couchbase Lite log messages.

Reviewer: Please provide an example for each platform. Apps will have to implement this interface
```
interface Logger {
 var level: LogLevel

 func log(
    level: LogLevel,  
    domain: LogDomain,
    message: String)
}
```

Author: https://github.com/couchbase/docs-couchbase-lite/commit/ac72abaf4f1dbabf202b3e54dd421b353c609ad9 - just a placeholder for now. I have a few questions which we can work through on the docs sync up call.

> Provides apps the ability to use other logging frameworks to handle Couchbase Lite log messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provides apps the ability to register callback function in order to receive Couchbase Lite log messages. The messages can be logged using any external logging framework.
```
